Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today I’m going
to explain an episode from an American adult
animated anthology “Love, Death &
Robots” called “The Drowned Giant”
At the beginning of the episode, three scientists
drive to a beach while one of them named Steven
narrates about a naked dead giant. The day
before, a massive storm had hit the sea
which washed up a dead body of a giant to the
shore. The surprised local fishermen contacted
the officials who at first refused to believe such
atrocious news. But as people began to visit the
beach and return back with crazy stories, the
scientists decided to go see for themselves.
And so, Steven and his colleagues, who thought
that everyone was just bluffing about the dead
giant, now stand before him. A crowd surrounds the
corpse, scared to touch it before being absolutely
sure that it’s safe. Steven’s colleagues guess
that the man weighs anywhere around eighty tons.
Steven narrates that the vast proportion of his
features makes it difficult for them to figure
out his age, but looking at the giant’s defined
nose and mouth, he believes that he had been a
young man with a modest temper. The three go
around the giant's body inspecting him. Steven
sees a pool of water that had been collected in
the corpse’s palm where tiny fishes swim.
Steven says that beyond the size of the giant, the
simple fact that he exists surprises him the most.
He compares the giant’s existence to the crowd
on the beach and concludes that they are just
imperfect and puny copies of him. As Steven looks
at the creature mesmerized, his colleague climbs
on top of the corpse’s chest and waves towards the
crowd indicating that it is safe to come near it.
The people run towards him while cheering and
climb on top. Some of them comment that the body
is rubbery and bouncy. Children start playing
on his chest, trashing it with their shoes.
Steven, however, doesn’t touch or climb on
it. He and his colleagues stare at the giant
from afar while writing on their notes. As time
passes by, the people get enough of playing with
the dead giants, and everyone returns home.
After three days, Steven visits the beach again.
Because of his growing interest in the giant,
his facility assigns him the role of keeping tabs
on it. Steven claims that he wasn’t morbid about
keeping an eye on a dead person because, for him,
the giant was more alive than the people around
him. He watches as kids play slide on the corpse’s
chest, and some workers plan to butcher his femur
bone. The corpse has become public property. The
following day, Steven deliberately postponed
his visit to the beach until late afternoon,
so no one would be around. When he gets there, the
corpse looks in bad form and has started to decay.
A teenage girl sits comfortably on
the giant’s ear, using it as a chair.
Steven notices that the giant’s face has a much
less youthful look than it was before. He assumes
it is because of prolonged immersion in seawater
and tumefaction of tissue. As a crab crawls out of
the giant’s mouth, the scientist claims that
it won’t be long until he decays fully.
Steven finally gets the courage to set
foot on the corpse. Atop his chest,
he sees a sandcastle someone had built. Then, his
other arm comes into view, showing us that half
of it has already decayed and whatever remained
of it has been taken away by people. Meanwhile,
his cornea has become hazy and cloudy, which gives
his eyes a whirlpool effect. Steven looks at them,
saying that the giants’ suffering is less
tragic than this isolation that he is facing.
The next time he visits the giant, both his arms
and one of his legs have decayed and been cut.
Steven walks around looking at the corpse,
which had been vandalized by teens who spray
paint insults on his body. He is reluctant to
witness the end of the magnificent creature,
but the insults make him feel that the creature
is more human because it seems more vulnerable to
him now. When Steven comes to the beach the
following day, he is almost relieved to see
that the corpse’s head has been removed. Birds
eat its flesh as Steven watches it from afar.
Without the head, the corpse looked less
human, which reduces Steven’s relationship
with the corpse that he had formed.
After that day, he doesn’t visit the beach for a
few weeks. On his next journey, he witnesses that
any feature indicating that the corpse was once
human has vanished. The only thing that remains is
the decaying gut of the once magnificent creature.
By now, the interest of the crowd in the giant has
expired. Months later, after the giant’s arrival
has been forgotten, various pieces of his body can
be seen around town—especially his bones, which
are used as decorations. While cycling one day,
Steven notices the giant’s skull lying abandoned.
He believes that if he looks around the town’s
pubs, he will find mummified noses and ears
as well. According to Steven, these decorations
convey the giant’s greatness better than Steven’s
memory of his bloated and decaying appendages.
As for the giant’s genitals, it is shown that it
had been cut off and placed in the freak museum
in a circus. Steven narrates that the apparatus
occupies a whole tent to itself but is sadly
mislabeled as belonging to a whale. At last,
the scientist says that the people who saw the
giant remember him as only a sea monster. However,
for him, the giant is still alive, and he often
dreams of his resurrection. In his dreams,
the giant strides through the town picking up his
fragments on his return journey to the sea.
The episode, although short, has a deep and
metaphorical meaning in every scene.
The fans of the episode have interpreted it
their own way, but many believe that the narrator
Steven, is the giant himself. Steven feels the
pain of the dead giant when no one else can.
So, some fans think that steven and the giant
are the same people. The giant might be trying
to communicate through steven. Moreover, the way
Steven describes several stages of the decaying
of the corpse in such detail makes one wonder
if he is the one going through the stages.
The decaying of the giant’s corpse is also seen
as a metaphor for several things. The narrator,
Steven, observes the decaying of the corpse very
closely at every stage. First, he sees the process
that was supposed to happen, that is his body
decaying by the passage of time, then he notices
people starting to amputate the corpse treating
it as a commodity. And the way humans treat him
poorly showed him the extent of consumerism and
exploitation that is considered normal in today’s
world. As the story progresses, Steven begins
to question what it means to be human and when
do we decide that we have lost humanity.
Until the corpse had a head, he thought of
it as a human just like him and the others
around him. In fact, he believed that the
giant was more of a human than tiny creatures
like himself. However, after Steven’s sympathy
towards the giant dropped when he saw him only
as a mass of flesh. Throughout the episode,
we do not know who the giant is or where
he came from, rather, “The Drowned Giant”
focuses more on the contrast of Steven and
other people’s feelings towards the giant.
In the book itself, J.G. Ballard concludes with
the detail about the giant’s appendage being
displayed in a circus. This is to emphasize how
much the giant was humiliated, although being a
greater existence than them all. It also denotes
human’s superficial and exploitative nature.
Moreover, his genitals were labeled to be of a
whale’s, and his bones were mere decorations for
the people. Here, it is clear that the giant has
been completely stripped of his humanity. However,
Steven describes the genitals and decorated bones
as the only things that convey how magnificent of
a being the giant was. Although he loves and
remembers the creature more than anyone else,
he believes that his memory of his decaying
body would have never conveyed his greatness
as his preserved body parts do.
The giant was just a myth
before being washed up to the shore. People
experienced his arrival for a short while,
but forgot about him soon, turning his existence
into a myth again. We humans, like the giant,
will someday fade away and remain only
in the memories of the people we met.
But eventually, those memories will fade
as well and we simply cease to exist.
Subscribe for more videos like this,
turn on notifications, and leave a
like to help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.